---
layout: post
title:  "OSGeo PSC - November meeting 2018"
excerpt : "PSC members, community repository, news"
date:   2018-11-13 15:00:00 +0300
categories: [psc, psc-memo]
tags: blog
---

# November meeting 2018

The PSC gathered to discuss the following agenda:

- Follow up from last meeting 
- News from the PSC members
- New roadmap items
- Community repository
- Documentation improvement

## Opening the meeting at 15:04

Via conference call:

- Sami Mäkinen
- Jaakko Ruutiainen
- Timo Sallinen
- Tuuli Pihlajamaa
- Marko Kuosmanen
- Sanna Jokela (secretary)

Not present:
- Jussi Arpalahti
- Tomi Lukkarinen
- Hafliði Sigtryggur Magnússon
- Heikki Ylitalo

## Last meeting topics and follow-up

- New roadmap items: Approvement of OIP: Layer permission handling (still under way - NLS-FI responsible)
- React-discussion (no new bundles on the way, Sami will add OIP on this: new functionality should be created using React)
- Draft ideas from Oskari Developer Summit (Sanna will add ideas to GitHub asap)
- Vector tile tests (No new development on this, idea: example solution for demo.oskari.org using OpenTileMaps, it has some issues on performance)
- Activity of PSC members (Lukkarinen wants to stay in the PSC, time of the meetings is not possible for him, suggested that at 13:00 should be better ⇒ let’s change this, Sanna will update the calendar invitations)

## News from the PSC members

- Jaakko: Liiteri-service by Environmental Centre of Finland (hiearchical layer update) & Finnish Heritage Agnecy (download basket) have some development issues and updates on the way, no new bigger development tasks. 
- Marko: Download basket PR, openlayer 5 +, requests how to download datasets is under research (now download link is send to email and causes timeout if the package is too large)
- Sanna: Training ideas on Oskari are developed with Gispo Ltd & Ubigu Ltd. Turku University of Applied Science students are doing some UI chekups and useability research on different Oskari-cases, the research should be ready on 5.12.2018. Website-development is crucial: oskari.org mockup for the website has been done. Development in 2019 (JDF is budgeting on this about 5000€).
- Timo S: Students are going to make UI tests on Suomi.fi-maps. Community repo setup is now its own repository. Long term roadmap for issues is being developed. Open311 support one of the issues. Environmental Centre has has some ideas on how to collect POIs with Suomi.fi-maps
- Tuuli: Student are also testing the needs of Statistics Finland and Oskari. Ideas are been developed on Sparql - linked data solution, query language is near SQL. New map layer type could be the solution, admin could add that layer to Oskari? New version of the idea will be drafted and think about how it will be used in Oskari for the end user. 
- Sami: Lots of front code re-organisation has been going on. Front end: deletion of application specific functions (ELF, ArcticSDI, etc.). New: contrib repo has been created (=community repository) which now holds most of the unsupported and/or application specific functionality that was previously in oskari-frontend. Paikkatietoikkuna: acts as an example for using app-specific repository that uses code from both contrib and oskari-frontend. Oskari is now more lean and nice. How version publication will be made in contrib side - is it enough to have a git tag for release synced with oskari-frontend release? Now in contrib repo: analysis, content editor tools, etc. Next release 1.49 has the new structure (possibly in the end of this month). 1.50 (Jetty 9 packaging). Any ideas on this? Jetty 8 ⇒ Jetty 9 documentation? Documentation could be versioned in the future? Let’s add this as a Website development issue


## New roadmap items

- Oskari website & documentation development plan should be added to GitHub (Sanna can do this)
- Liiteri ESRI Rest support development (can be found from Sitowise GitHub, Liiteri branch), usefull if someone has ArcGISServer in use


## OIP

- no new ones to discuss/approve.

## Community repository

- Repository changes: community repository has been launched: https://github.com/oskariorg/oskari-frontend-contrib 

## PSC members

- Heikki Ylitalo has stated that he will step down from Oskari PSC due to a new job. Sami asks that he should state this also through Oskari mailing list.
- Timo Aarnio has had interest in joining PSC
- Everybody can also suggest new people to the PSC

## Documentation improvement 

- Work is ongoing and Oskari.org structure development coming up in 2019. 
- Feedback from the audience, the set-up documentation needs to be created for different environments - this should be documented when new installations are made so that all different elements are somehow reported. 
- Question from JDF: are there good instructions available for how to maintain community bundles and when to update Oskari?
- When the updating is “risk free” meaning when Oskari is already updated by some other. It was stated by Sami that latest version should always be the best.
- LTR-stamp issue was discussed. Should we have fixed schedule with Oskari? It was decided to get back to this in the next meeting. 

## Next meeting

Next meeting: 11.12.2018, scheduled now every month, every second week tuesday at 13:00 (GMT+3). NEW TIME!

## End of meeting: 16:07
